:memo: PHP rework (re-start) (#2669)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/development/variables/_index.md

weight: 5
description: |
  Variables give you control over your project's build process and runtime environment. You can set them in your code to make changes across your project or independent of the code for environment-specific settings.

> layout: single

Reviewer: :question: Why make this change? I'm not sure I understand the relevance here.

For specific frameworks, you can implement logic to override global configurations with [environment-specific variables](./set-variables.md#create-environment-specific-variables).
So you can use the same codebase and settings for all your environments,
but still adapt the behavior to each environment.

#### Implementation example

The [Drupal 9 template](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/) shows an example of
overriding Drupal configuration using environment variables.
These variables are parsed in the [`settings.platformsh.php` script](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/blob/8d5d23cdcb91ffa3f96727adf9d3dba74dfc01db/web/sites/default/settings.platformsh.php#L125-L162).

For example, the site name is overridden by a variable named `drupalsettings:system.site:name`.
Variables for the override are composed of three distinct parts each separated by colons:

- A prefix (`drupalsettings`)
- The configuration object to override (`system.site`)
- The property to set (`name`)

Setting the `drupalsettings:system.site:name` variable overrides the `name` property of the `system.site` configuration object located in the global `$settings` array.

> 

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
````suggestion
You can do this by running the following [CLI command](../../administration/cli/_index.md):

``` bash
platform variable:create --name "drupalsettings:system.site:name" --value "{{<variable "SITE_NAME" >}}"
```

````

The same logic applies for other configuration options,
such as the global `$config` array, which uses the variable prefix `drupalconfig`.

You need to name your Platform.sh variables to match the ones used in your script.
Make sure that the Platform.sh variables start with a string present in your `switch` statement.

> To override values using the script in the Drupal 9 template:
> 
> 1. Find out which settings can be overridden in the [settings script](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/blob/8d5d23cdcb91ffa3f96727adf9d3dba74dfc01db/web/sites/default/settings.platformsh.php#L125-L162).
>    Adapt the script if needed.
> 2. [Create variables that match the script](../../development/variables/set-variables.md).
>    For example, to override the site name, run the following [CLI command](../../administration/cli/_index.md):

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I still think this is repetitive. I would remove this and just move the example above.
```suggestion
```

>     ``` bash
>     platform variable:create --name "drupalsettings:system.site:name" --value "{{<variable "SITE_NAME" >}}"
>     ```
> 

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
```

### PHP-specific variables

Any variable with the prefix `php` is added to the PHP configuration for all PHP-based application containers in the project.

Using variables, you can use the same files for all your environments and override values on any given environment if needed.

You can set the PHP memory limit to 256 MB on a specific environment, by running the following [CLI command](../../administration/cli/_index.md):

```bash
platform variable:create --level environment --prefix php --name memory_limit --value 256M --environment {{< variable "ENVIRONMENT_NAME" >}}
```

> You can also set variables directly in the `.platform.app.yaml` file to use them globally.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
To use variables globally, set them in your [app configuration](../../create-apps/_index.md).
```

For example, to change the PHP memory limit for all environments, use the following configuration:

```yaml {location=".platform.app.yaml"}
variables:
    php:
        memory_limit: "256M"
```

### Framework-specific variables

For specific frameworks, you can implement logic to override global configurations with [environment-specific variables](./set-variables.md#create-environment-specific-variables).
So you can use the same codebase and settings for all your environments,
but still adapt the behavior to each environment.
See an [implementation example](#implementation-example).

#### Implementation example

> The [Drupal 9 template](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/) shows examples of overriding variables from Drupal's configuration system through environment variables.
> 
> The parsing of the variables to override happens in [the `settings.platformsh.php` script](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/blob/8d5d23cdcb91ffa3f96727adf9d3dba74dfc01db/web/sites/default/settings.platformsh.php#L125-L162).
> 
> In that script the override of the site name is defined to look for a variable named `drupalsettings:system.site:name`.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
The [Drupal 9 template](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/) shows an example of
overriding Drupal configuration using environment variables.
These variables are parsed in the [`settings.platformsh.php` script](https://github.com/platformsh-templates/drupal9/blob/8d5d23cdcb91ffa3f96727adf9d3dba74dfc01db/web/sites/default/settings.platformsh.php#L125-L162).

For example, the site name is overridden by a variable named `drupalsettings:system.site:name`.
```

Variables for the override are composed of three distinct parts each separated by colons:

- A prefix (`drupalsettings`)
- The configuration object to override (`system.site`)
- The property to set (`name`)

Setting the `drupalsettings:system.site:name` variable overrides the `name` property of the `system.site` configuration object located in the global `$settings` array.

The same logic applies for other configuration options,
such as the global `$config` array, which uses the variable prefix `drupalconfig`.

You need to name your Platform.sh variables to match the ones used in your script.
Make sure that the Platform.sh variables start with a string present in your `switch` statement.

> To override the values from the Drupal 9 template:

Reviewer: This same example is already given above this.
